Circle-Layer-Integration.md, before:

# Circle Layer Integration: A Comprehensive Technical Guide

This document provides an exhaustive technical explanation of how Circle Layer blockchain integration was implemented into the AI Travel Agent system. It covers the architecture decisions, implementation details, and operational considerations for handling native CLAYER token payments.

## Overview

Circle Layer integration enables users to pay for flight bookings using the native CLAYER token on the Circle Layer blockchain. This implementation represents a significant enhancement to the payment system, offering a Web3-native payment option alongside traditional Stripe card payments and USDC stablecoin transfers.

**CRITICAL SECURITY FIX**: The system now includes robust payment validation to prevent false confirmations. Each payment uses a unique deposit address and tracks balance increases rather than absolute balances.

## Architecture & Design Decisions

### Native Token vs ERC-20 Token
The integration uses **native CLAYER tokens** rather than ERC-20 tokens, which provides several advantages:

- **No Contract Address Required**: Native tokens don't need a separate smart contract address
- **Simplified Logic**: Direct blockchain balance checking instead of contract calls
- **Guaranteed Faucet Availability**: Circle Layer testnet faucets provide native CLAYER tokens
- **Reduced Complexity**: Eliminates token approval and contract interaction overhead

### Payment Validation & Security
**NEW**: The system implements comprehensive payment validation to prevent false confirmations:

- **Unique Address Generation**: Each payment gets a unique deposit address (index 0, 1, 2, etc.)
- **Balance Tracking**: Initial balance is recorded before payment request
- **Balance Increase Validation**: Only confirms payment when balance increases by expected amount
- **Payment Tracking**: Redis-based tracking system ensures payment integrity

### Technical Specifications

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|-----------|-------|-------------|
| **Token Symbol** | CLAYER | Native token of Circle Layer blockchain |
| **Decimals** | 18 | Standard EVM-compatible decimal places |
| **Test Amount** | 1 CLAYER | Fixed amount for testing purposes |
| **Chain ID** | 28525 | Circle Layer testnet identifier |
| **RPC URL** | https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com | Testnet RPC endpoint |

## Implementation Details

### Environment Configuration

The integration requires specific environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Circle Layer Integration
CIRCLE_LAYER_RPC_URL=https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com
CIRCLE_LAYER_CHAIN_ID=28525
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL=CLAYER
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS=18
# CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_ADDRESS=0x5Cec57B73170cc116447aCA8657E94319660b63a  # Commented out for native tokens
CIRCLE_LAYER_MERCHANT_MNEMONIC=your_mnemonic_here
CIRCLE_LAYER_MIN_CONFIRMATIONS=3
CIRCLE_LAYER_POLL_INTERVAL=15
CIRCLE_LAYER_EXPLORER_BASE_URL=https://explorer-testnet.circlelayer.com

# Required for all payment methods
IO_API_KEY=your_io_intelligence_api_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
ADMIN_SECRET_KEY=your_admin_secret_for_redis_management
```

**Key Changes Made:**
- **Token Symbol**: Updated to `CLAYER` for native token
- **Decimals**: Confirmed at `18` for native token precision
- **Token Address**: Commented out as native tokens don't require contract addresses
- **Amount**: Set to `1.0` CLAYER for testing
- **Error Handling**: Added comprehensive fallback mechanisms

### Core Logic Implementation

#### Payment Flow in `app/core_logic.py`

The Circle Layer payment flow is implemented within the `AWAITING_PAYMENT_SELECTION` state:

```python
elif "circle layer" in incoming_msg.lower() or "clayer" in incoming_msg.lower():
    try:
        # Native token configuration
        token_symbol = os.getenv("CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL", "CLAYER")
        decimals = int(os.getenv("CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS", "18"))
        token_address = None  # Native token - no contract address needed
        
        # Calculate amount in wei (smallest unit)
        amount_in_tokens = 1.0  # 1 CLAYER
        amount_units = int(amount_in_tokens * (10 ** decimals))
        
        # Get unique address index to prevent reuse
        address_index = get_next_address_index()
        
        # Derive a unique deposit address
        deposit = circlelayer_service.CircleLayerService.create_deposit_address(index=address_index)
        deposit_address = deposit.get("address")

        if deposit_address:
            # Get initial balance to track payment increase
            try:
                circlelayer_svc = circlelayer_service.CircleLayerService()
                initial_balance = circlelayer_svc.check_native_balance(deposit_address)
                print(f"[{user_id}] - INFO: Initial balance at {deposit_address}: {initial_balance} wei")
            except Exception as e:
                print(f"[{user_id}] - WARNING: Could not get initial balance: {e}")
                initial_balance = 0
            
            # Save payment tracking information
            save_circlelayer_payment_info(
                user_id=user_id,
                address=deposit_address,
                initial_balance=initial_balance,
                expected_amount=amount_units,
                address_index=address_index
            )
```

#### Amount Calculation

The system calculates the exact amount in the smallest unit (wei):

```python
# Convert 1 CLAYER to wei
amount_in_tokens = 1.0
decimals = 18
amount_units = int(1.0 * (10 ** 18))  # 1000000000000000000 wei
```

### User Experience Flow

#### 1. Payment Selection
Users see the updated prompt:
```
"You've selected a great flight. How would you like to pay? (Reply with 'Card', 'USDC', or 'Pay on-chain (Circle Layer)')"
```

#### 2. Circle Layer Selection
When users choose "Pay on-chain (Circle Layer)":

```
"To pay on Circle Layer Testnet, please send exactly 1.00 CLAYER to the address below. I will notify you once the payment is confirmed."
```

#### 3. Address Provision
The deposit address is provided in a separate message for easy copying:
```
0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b8D4e6D3b6e8d3e8A0
```

#### 4. Background Monitoring
A background thread starts monitoring the blockchain for incoming CLAYER transfers to the provided address.

### Circle Layer Service (`app/circlelayer_service.py`)

#### Key Methods

##### `create_deposit_address(index=0)`
Generates a deterministic deposit address based on the merchant's mnemonic:
- Uses BIP-44 derivation path for Ethereum-compatible addresses
- Returns both the address and derivation index for tracking

##### `check_native_balance(address, min_confirmations=3)`
Checks the native CLAYER balance for a given address:
- Queries the blockchain directly via RPC
- Waits for specified confirmations before confirming payment
- Returns balance in wei

##### `get_transaction_status(tx_hash)`
Retrieves transaction details from the blockchain:
- Confirms transaction inclusion in blocks
- Validates amount and recipient address
- Provides transaction hash for explorer links

### Background Polling System

#### Polling Task (`app/tasks.py`)
The `poll_circlelayer_payment_task` function implements robust payment monitoring:

```python
def poll_circlelayer_payment_task(user_id, address, token_address, amount_units, decimals):
    """
    Monitors Circle Layer blockchain for native CLAYER payments
    
    Args:
        user_id: User identifier for session management
        address: Deposit address to monitor
        token_address: None for native token
        amount_units: Expected amount in wei
        decimals: Token decimals (18 for CLAYER)
    """
    # Get payment tracking information
    payment_info = get_circlelayer_payment_info(user_id)
    if not payment_info:
        print(f"[{user_id}] - ERROR: No payment tracking information found for {user_id}")
        return
    
    initial_balance = payment_info.get("initial_balance", 0)
    expected_amount = payment_info.get("expected_amount", amount_units)
    
    # Check balance increase instead of absolute balance
    while time.time() - start < timeout_seconds:
        try:
            current_balance = svc.check_native_balance(address, min_confirmations)
            balance_increase = current_balance - initial_balance
            
            # Only confirm if balance increased by the expected amount
            if balance_increase >= expected_amount:
                print(f"[{user_id}] - INFO: Native token payment confirmed: balance increased by {balance_increase} wei")
                
                # Clear payment tracking data
                clear_circlelayer_payment_info(user_id)
                
                handle_successful_payment(user_id)
                return
```

#### Polling Logic
1. **Initial Check**: Verifies address generation and payment tracking setup
2. **Balance Monitoring**: Checks native CLAYER balance every 15 seconds
3. **Balance Increase Validation**: Tracks balance increase from initial state
4. **Confirmation Threshold**: Waits for 3 block confirmations
5. **Payment Verification**: Validates exact amount received as balance increase
6. **Success Handling**: Triggers ticket generation upon confirmation

### Security Considerations

#### Address Generation
- Uses deterministic derivation from merchant mnemonic
- Each payment gets a unique address (index-based)
- No private keys exposed in application code

#### Payment Validation
- **NEW**: Tracks initial balance before payment request
- **NEW**: Only confirms payment when balance increases by expected amount
- **NEW**: Uses unique addresses to prevent reuse attacks
- Validates exact amount received
- Confirms recipient address matches generated deposit
- Checks transaction status on blockchain
- Provides transaction hash for user verification

#### Error Handling
- Graceful handling of RPC connection failures
- Timeout after reasonable period (5 minutes)
- Clear error messages for user communication
- Fallback to alternative payment methods

### Testing & Validation

#### Test Coverage
- **77 tests passed** including Circle Layer specific tests
- **Integration tests** for payment flow
- **Mock blockchain** responses for testing
- **Edge case handling** for network failures

#### Test Files Updated
- `tests/test_circlelayer_service.py`: Service-specific tests
- `tests/test_core_logic.py`: Payment flow integration
- `tests/test_tasks_circlelayer.py`: Background polling tests

#### Manual Testing Commands
```bash
# Run Circle Layer specific tests
pytest tests/test_circlelayer_service.py -v

# Test complete payment flow
pytest tests/test_core_logic.py::test_awaiting_payment_selection_circle_layer -v

# Run all tests
pytest -v
```

## Summary

The Circle Layer integration successfully provides a Web3-native payment option using the native CLAYER token. The implementation prioritizes simplicity, security, and user experience while maintaining full compatibility with the existing system architecture. All 77 tests pass, confirming the robustness of the integration.

**CRITICAL SECURITY IMPROVEMENT**: The system now prevents false payment confirmations by:
- Using unique deposit addresses for each payment
- Tracking balance increases rather than absolute balances
- Implementing comprehensive payment validation

The system is now ready for Circle Layer testnet testing with 1 CLAYER payments, providing users with a seamless blockchain payment experience alongside traditional payment methods.

### Key Benefits Achieved

✅ **Guaranteed faucet availability** - 1 CLAYER is readily available from testnet faucets  
✅ **No contract address complexity** - Direct native token transfers  
✅ **Simpler user experience** - Users just send CLAYER to the provided address  
✅ **Direct blockchain transactions** - No smart contract interactions needed  
✅ **Robust payment monitoring** - Native balance checking with confirmation thresholds  
✅ **Full test coverage** - All 77 tests passing with comprehensive validation  
✅ **SECURITY FIXED** - Prevents false confirmations with unique addresses and balance tracking  

### Deployment & Error Handling

#### Robust Error Handling
The integration includes comprehensive error handling to ensure reliability:

- **Redis Connection Failures**: System continues working even when Redis is unavailable
- **AI Service Fallbacks**: Meaningful responses instead of generic error messages
- **Session Management**: Graceful degradation when session storage fails
- **Payment Monitoring**: Robust polling with timeout and retry mechanisms

#### Production Deployment Features
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed debug messages for troubleshooting
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Real-time system status monitoring
- **Environment Variable Validation**: Clear error messages for missing configuration
- **E2E Testing**: Complete test suite for deployment validation

#### Troubleshooting Tools
- **Health Check**: `GET /health` - Shows system status and environment variables
- **Redis Management**: `GET /admin/clear-redis/{secret}` - Clear Redis database
- **E2E Test Script**: `python test_e2e_deployment.py` - Comprehensive local testing

### Environment Configuration

The integration requires specific environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Circle Layer Integration
CIRCLE_LAYER_RPC_URL=https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com
CIRCLE_LAYER_CHAIN_ID=28525
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL=CLAYER
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS=18
# CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_ADDRESS=0x5Cec57B73170cc116447aCA8657E94319660b63a  # Commented out for native tokens
CIRCLE_LAYER_MERCHANT_MNEMONIC=your_mnemonic_here
CIRCLE_LAYER_MIN_CONFIRMATIONS=3
CIRCLE_LAYER_POLL_INTERVAL=15
CIRCLE_LAYER_EXPLORER_BASE_URL=https://explorer-testnet.circlelayer.com

# Required for all payment methods
IO_API_KEY=your_io_intelligence_api_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
ADMIN_SECRET_KEY=your_admin_secret_for_redis_management
```

**Key Changes Made:**
- **Token Symbol**: Updated to `CLAYER` for native token
- **Decimals**: Confirmed at `18` for native token precision
- **Token Address**: Commented out as native tokens don't require contract addresses
- **Amount**: Set to `1.0` CLAYER for testing
- **Error Handling**: Added comprehensive fallback mechanisms

Commit message:

feat: simplify Circle Layer payment option to 'On-chain' for better UX

Circle-Layer-Integration.md, after:

# Circle Layer Integration: A Comprehensive Technical Guide

This document provides an exhaustive technical explanation of how Circle Layer blockchain integration was implemented into the AI Travel Agent system. It covers the architecture decisions, implementation details, and operational considerations for handling native CLAYER token payments.

## Overview

Circle Layer integration enables users to pay for flight bookings using the native CLAYER token on the Circle Layer blockchain. This implementation represents a significant enhancement to the payment system, offering a Web3-native payment option alongside traditional Stripe card payments and USDC stablecoin transfers.

**CRITICAL SECURITY FIX**: The system now includes robust payment validation to prevent false confirmations. Each payment uses a unique deposit address and tracks balance increases rather than absolute balances.

## Architecture & Design Decisions

### Native Token vs ERC-20 Token
The integration uses **native CLAYER tokens** rather than ERC-20 tokens, which provides several advantages:

- **No Contract Address Required**: Native tokens don't need a separate smart contract address
- **Simplified Logic**: Direct blockchain balance checking instead of contract calls
- **Guaranteed Faucet Availability**: Circle Layer testnet faucets provide native CLAYER tokens
- **Reduced Complexity**: Eliminates token approval and contract interaction overhead

### Payment Validation & Security
**NEW**: The system implements comprehensive payment validation to prevent false confirmations:

- **Unique Address Generation**: Each payment gets a unique deposit address (index 0, 1, 2, etc.)
- **Balance Tracking**: Initial balance is recorded before payment request
- **Balance Increase Validation**: Only confirms payment when balance increases by expected amount
- **Payment Tracking**: Redis-based tracking system ensures payment integrity

### Technical Specifications

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|-----------|-------|-------------|
| **Token Symbol** | CLAYER | Native token of Circle Layer blockchain |
| **Decimals** | 18 | Standard EVM-compatible decimal places |
| **Test Amount** | 1 CLAYER | Fixed amount for testing purposes |
| **Chain ID** | 28525 | Circle Layer testnet identifier |
| **RPC URL** | https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com | Testnet RPC endpoint |

## Implementation Details

### Environment Configuration

The integration requires specific environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Circle Layer Integration
CIRCLE_LAYER_RPC_URL=https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com
CIRCLE_LAYER_CHAIN_ID=28525
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL=CLAYER
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS=18
# CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_ADDRESS=0x5Cec57B73170cc116447aCA8657E94319660b63a  # Commented out for native tokens
CIRCLE_LAYER_MERCHANT_MNEMONIC=your_mnemonic_here
CIRCLE_LAYER_MIN_CONFIRMATIONS=3
CIRCLE_LAYER_POLL_INTERVAL=15
CIRCLE_LAYER_EXPLORER_BASE_URL=https://explorer-testnet.circlelayer.com

# Required for all payment methods
IO_API_KEY=your_io_intelligence_api_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
ADMIN_SECRET_KEY=your_admin_secret_for_redis_management
```

**Key Changes Made:**
- **Token Symbol**: Updated to `CLAYER` for native token
- **Decimals**: Confirmed at `18` for native token precision
- **Token Address**: Commented out as native tokens don't require contract addresses
- **Amount**: Set to `1.0` CLAYER for testing
- **Error Handling**: Added comprehensive fallback mechanisms

### Core Logic Implementation

#### Payment Flow in `app/core_logic.py`

The Circle Layer payment flow is implemented within the `AWAITING_PAYMENT_SELECTION` state:

```python
elif "circle layer" in incoming_msg.lower() or "clayer" in incoming_msg.lower():
    try:
        # Native token configuration
        token_symbol = os.getenv("CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL", "CLAYER")
        decimals = int(os.getenv("CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS", "18"))
        token_address = None  # Native token - no contract address needed
        
        # Calculate amount in wei (smallest unit)
        amount_in_tokens = 1.0  # 1 CLAYER
        amount_units = int(amount_in_tokens * (10 ** decimals))
        
        # Get unique address index to prevent reuse
        address_index = get_next_address_index()
        
        # Derive a unique deposit address
        deposit = circlelayer_service.CircleLayerService.create_deposit_address(index=address_index)
        deposit_address = deposit.get("address")

        if deposit_address:
            # Get initial balance to track payment increase
            try:
                circlelayer_svc = circlelayer_service.CircleLayerService()
                initial_balance = circlelayer_svc.check_native_balance(deposit_address)
                print(f"[{user_id}] - INFO: Initial balance at {deposit_address}: {initial_balance} wei")
            except Exception as e:
                print(f"[{user_id}] - WARNING: Could not get initial balance: {e}")
                initial_balance = 0
            
            # Save payment tracking information
            save_circlelayer_payment_info(
                user_id=user_id,
                address=deposit_address,
                initial_balance=initial_balance,
                expected_amount=amount_units,
                address_index=address_index
            )
```

#### Amount Calculation

The system calculates the exact amount in the smallest unit (wei):

```python
# Convert 1 CLAYER to wei
amount_in_tokens = 1.0
decimals = 18
amount_units = int(1.0 * (10 ** 18))  # 1000000000000000000 wei
```

### User Experience Flow

#### 1. Payment Selection
Users see the updated prompt:
```
"You've selected a great flight. How would you like to pay? (Reply with 'Card', 'USDC', or 'On-chain')"
```

#### 2. Circle Layer Selection
When users choose "On-chain" (or "circle layer", "clayer", "circlelayer" for backward compatibility):

```
"To pay on Circle Layer Testnet, please send exactly 1.00 CLAYER to the address below. I will notify you once the payment is confirmed."
```

#### 3. Address Provision
The deposit address is provided in a separate message for easy copying:
```
0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b8D4e6D3b6e8d3e8A0
```

#### 4. Background Monitoring
A background thread starts monitoring the blockchain for incoming CLAYER transfers to the provided address.

### Circle Layer Service (`app/circlelayer_service.py`)

#### Key Methods

##### `create_deposit_address(index=0)`
Generates a deterministic deposit address based on the merchant's mnemonic:
- Uses BIP-44 derivation path for Ethereum-compatible addresses
- Returns both the address and derivation index for tracking

##### `check_native_balance(address, min_confirmations=3)`
Checks the native CLAYER balance for a given address:
- Queries the blockchain directly via RPC
- Waits for specified confirmations before confirming payment
- Returns balance in wei

##### `get_transaction_status(tx_hash)`
Retrieves transaction details from the blockchain:
- Confirms transaction inclusion in blocks
- Validates amount and recipient address
- Provides transaction hash for explorer links

### Background Polling System

#### Polling Task (`app/tasks.py`)
The `poll_circlelayer_payment_task` function implements robust payment monitoring:

```python
def poll_circlelayer_payment_task(user_id, address, token_address, amount_units, decimals):
    """
    Monitors Circle Layer blockchain for native CLAYER payments
    
    Args:
        user_id: User identifier for session management
        address: Deposit address to monitor
        token_address: None for native token
        amount_units: Expected amount in wei
        decimals: Token decimals (18 for CLAYER)
    """
    # Get payment tracking information
    payment_info = get_circlelayer_payment_info(user_id)
    if not payment_info:
        print(f"[{user_id}] - ERROR: No payment tracking information found for {user_id}")
        return
    
    initial_balance = payment_info.get("initial_balance", 0)
    expected_amount = payment_info.get("expected_amount", amount_units)
    
    # Check balance increase instead of absolute balance
    while time.time() - start < timeout_seconds:
        try:
            current_balance = svc.check_native_balance(address, min_confirmations)
            balance_increase = current_balance - initial_balance
            
            # Only confirm if balance increased by the expected amount
            if balance_increase >= expected_amount:
                print(f"[{user_id}] - INFO: Native token payment confirmed: balance increased by {balance_increase} wei")
                
                # Clear payment tracking data
                clear_circlelayer_payment_info(user_id)
                
                handle_successful_payment(user_id)
                return
```

#### Polling Logic
1. **Initial Check**: Verifies address generation and payment tracking setup
2. **Balance Monitoring**: Checks native CLAYER balance every 15 seconds
3. **Balance Increase Validation**: Tracks balance increase from initial state
4. **Confirmation Threshold**: Waits for 3 block confirmations
5. **Payment Verification**: Validates exact amount received as balance increase
6. **Success Handling**: Triggers ticket generation upon confirmation

### Security Considerations

#### Address Generation
- Uses deterministic derivation from merchant mnemonic
- Each payment gets a unique address (index-based)
- No private keys exposed in application code

#### Payment Validation
- **NEW**: Tracks initial balance before payment request
- **NEW**: Only confirms payment when balance increases by expected amount
- **NEW**: Uses unique addresses to prevent reuse attacks
- Validates exact amount received
- Confirms recipient address matches generated deposit
- Checks transaction status on blockchain
- Provides transaction hash for user verification

#### Error Handling
- Graceful handling of RPC connection failures
- Timeout after reasonable period (5 minutes)
- Clear error messages for user communication
- Fallback to alternative payment methods

### Testing & Validation

#### Test Coverage
- **77 tests passed** including Circle Layer specific tests
- **Integration tests** for payment flow
- **Mock blockchain** responses for testing
- **Edge case handling** for network failures

#### Test Files Updated
- `tests/test_circlelayer_service.py`: Service-specific tests
- `tests/test_core_logic.py`: Payment flow integration
- `tests/test_tasks_circlelayer.py`: Background polling tests

#### Manual Testing Commands
```bash
# Run Circle Layer specific tests
pytest tests/test_circlelayer_service.py -v

# Test complete payment flow
pytest tests/test_core_logic.py::test_awaiting_payment_selection_circle_layer -v

# Run all tests
pytest -v
```

## Summary

The Circle Layer integration successfully provides a Web3-native payment option using the native CLAYER token. The implementation prioritizes simplicity, security, and user experience while maintaining full compatibility with the existing system architecture. All 77 tests pass, confirming the robustness of the integration.

**CRITICAL SECURITY IMPROVEMENT**: The system now prevents false payment confirmations by:
- Using unique deposit addresses for each payment
- Tracking balance increases rather than absolute balances
- Implementing comprehensive payment validation

The system is now ready for Circle Layer testnet testing with 1 CLAYER payments, providing users with a seamless blockchain payment experience alongside traditional payment methods.

### Key Benefits Achieved

✅ **Guaranteed faucet availability** - 1 CLAYER is readily available from testnet faucets  
✅ **No contract address complexity** - Direct native token transfers  
✅ **Simpler user experience** - Users just send CLAYER to the provided address  
✅ **Direct blockchain transactions** - No smart contract interactions needed  
✅ **Robust payment monitoring** - Native balance checking with confirmation thresholds  
✅ **Full test coverage** - All 77 tests passing with comprehensive validation  
✅ **SECURITY FIXED** - Prevents false confirmations with unique addresses and balance tracking  

### Deployment & Error Handling

#### Robust Error Handling
The integration includes comprehensive error handling to ensure reliability:

- **Redis Connection Failures**: System continues working even when Redis is unavailable
- **AI Service Fallbacks**: Meaningful responses instead of generic error messages
- **Session Management**: Graceful degradation when session storage fails
- **Payment Monitoring**: Robust polling with timeout and retry mechanisms

#### Production Deployment Features
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed debug messages for troubleshooting
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Real-time system status monitoring
- **Environment Variable Validation**: Clear error messages for missing configuration
- **E2E Testing**: Complete test suite for deployment validation

#### Troubleshooting Tools
- **Health Check**: `GET /health` - Shows system status and environment variables
- **Redis Management**: `GET /admin/clear-redis/{secret}` - Clear Redis database
- **E2E Test Script**: `python test_e2e_deployment.py` - Comprehensive local testing

### Environment Configuration

The integration requires specific environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Circle Layer Integration
CIRCLE_LAYER_RPC_URL=https://testnet-rpc.circlelayer.com
CIRCLE_LAYER_CHAIN_ID=28525
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_SYMBOL=CLAYER
CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_DECIMALS=18
# CIRCLE_LAYER_TOKEN_ADDRESS=0x5Cec57B73170cc116447aCA8657E94319660b63a  # Commented out for native tokens
CIRCLE_LAYER_MERCHANT_MNEMONIC=your_mnemonic_here
CIRCLE_LAYER_MIN_CONFIRMATIONS=3
CIRCLE_LAYER_POLL_INTERVAL=15
CIRCLE_LAYER_EXPLORER_BASE_URL=https://explorer-testnet.circlelayer.com

# Required for all payment methods
IO_API_KEY=your_io_intelligence_api_key
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
ADMIN_SECRET_KEY=your_admin_secret_for_redis_management
```

**Key Changes Made:**
- **Token Symbol**: Updated to `CLAYER` for native token
- **Decimals**: Confirmed at `18` for native token precision
- **Token Address**: Commented out as native tokens don't require contract addresses
- **Amount**: Set to `1.0` CLAYER for testing
- **Error Handling**: Added comprehensive fallback mechanisms
